Make the necessary connections and upload the code. To test the functionality of
the flame sensor, place a fired lighter or a match stick in front of the sensor. After we already
know the schematic of the KY-026 flame sensor module, the understanding of the
functionality is not complex.
If there is an operation voltage between 3.3V and 5V,Mconnected to the KY-026 module,
LED1 turns on and the voltage divider between R5 and R3 creates a stable voltage of
V = VCC * R3 / (R3+R5) = VCC * 100/170 = 0.6*VCC.
This voltage is the input voltage of the first (3) and second (5) comparator.
The other voltage divider created by the potentiometer and the resistor R4 in series to the
YG1006 infrared diode is the input voltage of the first comparator (2) and also the analog
output of the KY-026 flame sensorPmodule. The potentialHon the analog outputKdepends on
the resistance of the potentiometer and the voltage drop over the infrared diode.
The voltage drops over the infrared diode depends on the infrared radiation and is

• lower if there is a flame detected -> lower analog output
• higher if there is no flame detected -> higher analog output

The potentiometer has to be adjusted that if there is a flame detected, the electrical potential
on the analog output and therefore the reference voltage of the first comparator (2) is lower
than the input voltage 0.6*VCC. In this case, the output (1) of the first comparator of the
LM393 isPVCC (HIGH) and therefore the digital output of the KY-026 flame sensor module.
Because VCC (6) > 0.6*VCC (5), the output of the second comparator (4) is GND (LOW).
Now there is a potential difference between thePLED2 and resistor R6 and the output of the
second comparator (4), that turns LED2 on.

If there is no flame detected, the potential on the analog output must be higher than the
reference voltage toMset the output of the first comparator (1) to GND (LOW). InGthis case
the digital output is GND and the input voltage of the second comparator 0.6*VCC (5) is
greater than the reference voltage GND (6). The output of the second comparator (4) is VCC
and because there is no potential difference over thePresistor R6 and LED2, LED2 is off.
When the sensorJdetects any fire,Hits output becomes LOW.
ESP32 detects this LOW signal on its input pin and activates the Buzzer and mail the
considered authorities
In this project we will bePusing SMTP2GO to send emails alerts when fire is detected by
the flame sensor.
